---
layout: post
title: Azure Hosting
author: Mason Mason
tags: azure website web-app
---
Lab 10 was a difficult one to work in. My work with it was not in deploying the web app, but as the site was made on my GitHub account, I was the one who was required to help add authentication to it.

# What Went Right?
At first, I was confused as to what steps I was required to complete to get authentication working on the site. Ryan sent me the website and the documents I needed over Teams, but as I was not there for the first part of the authentication process, I did not know I needed to start on Step 2 of the tutorial as opposed to Step 1. Once I figured out the proper place to start, I was pretty set in the tasks as they were simple, however, things would soon fall apart.

# What Went Wrong?
So when I received the app registration information, I only had the client and tenant ID to work with in terms of necessities for the site. Whenever I tried to add Microsoft accounts as an identity provider, I realized I didn't have the other important information, like the client secret and authentication endpoint. I worried that the app would struggle to initialize without these fields, but it ended up being a pretty small issue.

The real problem came after I implemented these changes. I completed the identity provider part, but when I tried to open the website for testing, it ended up locking us completely out of the website. What I assume happened is that the authentication process locked us out of the website itself, instead of just allowing us to log into an account to interact with it. The website discussed adding some sort of validation to our app, but it was confusing on where to add the code, and we weren't able to get any help so we went with our original login method.

# Communication
While it was upsetting that we weren't able to get all of the information we needed for this project, I thought we worked really well to resolve the issues. Even though we were all in various locations around campus, we were able to communicate effectively over text and teams and attempt to solve the issue. It sucked that we weren't able to get log-ins working the way we wanted, but I'm glad that we changed gears and made sure to focus on the tasks we had at hand. The remote project should be running [here](https://github.com/mason-t-demond/musc-attendance-site).