---
layout: post
title: Razor Pages & Complexity
author: Mason Mason
tags: razor website
---
For my second Razor Pages website, I changed the site from Contoso University to the Clown College of West Dakota, a very prestigious and very real university.

# The Easy Parts
Overall, I didn't find this lab too much more difficult than the first one. While it took longer having to create and scaffold pages for each different model, the process didn't change much between them, so it was more tedious than anything.

# The Difficult Parts
The more difficult parts with this lab came when adding things that were extraneous to the lab. For instance, when creating the age field, I had to also add sorting for the field as well. Given theat this was not already included in the student index model, I had to use the methods for the other sorted columns to create a similar one. 

Additionally, I had to be very careful copying console commands into the terminal. Some of the contained references to ContosoUniversity, but my app folder was created as ClownCollegeWD, so I had to make sure that when using a command, the text was changed to the proper directory. I believe I made the error of doing this twice, causing me to have to restart my progress twice in order to fix it.

# Working with Multiple Tables
I didn't face many struggles when working with multiple tables. I believe the hardest part, however, is navigating the many different pages that were created. Often, I found myself trying to edit a page in the wrong model, such as trying to edit an Instructors page while being in the Courses page. I also found it annoying that everytime I wanted to add something new to one model, I would have to update the other models and pages to accomodate that. This, in addition to creating the many models, makes the process take longer.

# Moving Forward
I feel very confident tackling the final project and making a product for a client. I worry about re-introducing some of the things from earlier labs, like JQuery, but overall, I think it will be a great experience and prepare me well for the future.